The Joe Rogan.
Experience.
So you had this plan to turn this into some sort of a series from the time you
released the very first.
Book yeah. From before that. And so what's crazy is that as I'm writing this,
now,
they tell you not to think of someone playing your character as you're writing,
but as a child of the eighties,
that's almost impossible not to do so as I'm writing, the crazy part is like,
usually you think of like, mark,
Walberg you think of somebody that had done these sort of things kind of before,
but I thought of Chris Pratt and he had just done, you know,
all he'd done is parks and rec and he'd done, uh, he had a small role in zero,
dark 30, where he plays the seal. He has like a couple lines in there.
And for some reason I'm like, that's the guy really? I had no connection to him.
Um, and no, it wouldn't have been the obvious choice back is 20.
So I start writing in December of 2014, I think, or early 2015, somewhere there.
So, so he wasn't.
His giant movies.
Star then either. Nope, hadn't done any of that, that stuff yet. And I thought,
you know what? This is a likable guy. Uh, and he seems like an awesome dude.
I'm getting a good feeling from him. And I thought, you know,
growing up in the eighties, I love Magnum. Uh, you know,
he started off as a Naval intelligence officer and then they found out about
seals, the writers, they turned him into a seal, a couple seasons into it.
I'm like everybody loved Magnum in the eighties. Women liked him.
The guys liked him, you know, nothing not to like about Magnum.
And he also does the first,
essentially what you would call a murder on national television with the other
person, not having a firearm or a weapon. And it's the end of, uh,
I think it season see he is in three. Um, but the guy,
a guy that had him as a pow in Vietnam comes to Hawaii.
There's a little conspiracy thing involved.
And at the end he thinks he's walking away and then Magnum asks him if he's seen
the sun rise that morning, cuz that morning when his friend,
his friend gets killed, there's a sun. And the guy turns around. He's like, yes,
why? And the Magnum turns around and boom.
And they stop it right there with his fireball coming outta the end of his 1911.
And they freeze it right there. And it was the first time on, uh,
on television in that prime time hour where someone had killed somebody else,
the hero had killed someone else who wasn't armed. I forgotten about.
That, but I'm remembering it now. Very cool. That was very controversial.
Yeah. Yeah. And it's it's so I thought that's who I need.
I need somebody who's likable guy. Uh, who's gonna invest in this. And I,
I heard he was like pro-military and that sort of thing. And, and uh, Chris,
PRTs the guy and that's all, that's all I thought I gave to it.
He couldn't have picked a better guy, so awesome. And yeah,
who knew what he was gonna turn into at jurasic park and all he hadn't been
passengers. He hadn't done anything serious yet, but I also thought about,
cause I've been studying this since up my whole life.
And I thought about in the eighties, look what Tom Hanks did in the eighties.
You know, he's in boo and buddies, he's in, uh, Dragnet, he's in the burbs,
he's in Joe versus the volcano.
And then he does something called Philadelphia in the early nineties and he
takes out risk. And since then he's be able to write his own ticket.
He's one of the greatest actors of his generation. Uh,
and I thought who's that in this generation that needs to stretch a little bit,
that needs to do something different. Uh, and I'm like, that's,
that's Chris Pratt. He can do this.
And so I thought of it and then even crazier before the first book came out,
I met thunder ranch training, doing some shooting stuff up there in Oregon.
And I get this call from, uh, a guy that I knew in the seal teams.
And he's like, Hey bro, do you remember me? And you know him, you know Jared.
And, uh, he, uh, he was out there in Utah with us and he's like, Hey bro,
you remember me? I'm like, yeah, of course. I remember you. How's it going?
I didn't talk to him in five years or something.
And we catch up a little bit and he's like, Hey, you know,
I was wanted to thank you for a couple. I was leaving the seal teams.
I don't know if you remember, but you had me into your office. You sat me down,
you talked about transition.
You introduced me some people in the private sector and I've never forgotten it.
I was like, oh wow, Hey, of course, I'm gonna do that for you, cuz I mean,
he's an awesome dude, total stud great operator and wants to get outta the team.
So I'm gonna try to help him as best I can. Uh, but he really remembered it.
And he said, Hey, I heard you wrote a book. And I said, yeah, it's come,
went out in a couple months here.
There are these galley copy things which are early copies of a novel.
I can send one to you. I'd love to send it. And he said, yeah, I'd,
that'd be great. But I'd like to give one to a friend of mine. And I said, yeah,
no problem. Who's that? He said Chris Pratt. I was like, no way. Wow.
Yeah. So he gives it to Chris, Chris reads it and uh, next thing you know,
he's optioned it before it even, uh, comes out. I,
are you a guy who believes in fate, do you believe in destiny?
So when I was in Ramma in 2005, 2006,
that's where I got to think about this a little bit because every time you left
the wire,
anything could have been an I E D and you could have either spent that time on
the way to target and coming back from target, worried about, oh, is that,
is that dead donkey on the side? Is that, is that gonna blow,
kill and kill me or kill that hit that, uh, Hume in front of me, uh,
that piece of trash right there is that covering something else. Is that a,
is there a wire there you could spend every single mission,
especially going to and from target and even on target, worried about that,
or you could focus on the mission, focus on the job, get there, do the job,
get back. And at that time I was like, you, you know,
I think I have to resign myself to fate here in a lot of these things.
Otherwise my mind is gonna be focused, not where it needs to be,
but on is that naive D is that naive D and so I thought, all right, you know,
what, if, if I get blown up today, that's just, that's just how it was,
you know, do everything. We're everything we possibly can to mitigate that. But,
uh, you know,
it could happen and I'm not gonna spend or amount of bandwidth worried about
that other than trying to mitigate it as best we possibly can,
but that's not gonna be the focus of my E everything that I'm thinking about.
It can't be, I need to be focused on this mission.
I need to focus on contingencies. Uh, there's a fire fight.
I need to figure out, uh,
what assets are available that come in here for QRF or whatever else,
what air we have overhead, how do we, how do we, uh, maneuver here,
all those things. Like, that's what I need to worry about. What's as a leader,
a quick reaction force.
So you have those set up at different places in case you get hit.
So they can come on in, usually in like Bradley's or, uh, Abrams, sometimes, uh,
uh, different vehicles that have a little more firepower than you do as you're
sneaking through the streets. So,
so I kind of resign myself to fate and there's a book called, um, uh, bridge,
uh, at San Lu Ray. And there's like, I forget how many people,
but let's say five or six people that are on this bridge and it collapses.
And the story is how each one of them got to be on that bridge.
Why were those six people, the ones that were on that bridge, uh,
at that time and it's fate. So, so I guess,
and I haven't really thought of it too much since then. Uh,
other than that experience in Iraq and just having to,
or feeling like I had resign myself to it. Um.
The Chris Pratt thing is eerie though. It's crazy. It's a little eerie. I mean,
wonderfully eerie, no eerie made, be the worst word for it. <laugh> cause, uh,
pretty amazing. I feel very fortunate.
Yeah. And, uh, yeah, it's one of those things that.
You kind of maybe made that happen.
Like maybe you kind of put that out there as you were writing it,
thinking about him, maybe. I mean, I don't know.
I say that and I say shut up hippie <laugh> like, but he's like, oh,
what do you got a crystal up your too? You know, it's like.
That. I hadn't, uh, if I hadn't, if I was like not, I don't know. I mean, I was,
you know, whatever an average seal or whatever, but if I, uh, you know,
hadn't taken the time to sit down with Jared and like maybe Chris doesn't even
know this exists today. Right. Uh, and other crazy part of this,
I thought of Anton F would directing it really he's directing it. Yeah.
Why, why him? Because I, I love shooter.
Training day. He did training day, got to Oscar for, uh, for training day,
loved that, uh, magnificent seven. I knew he'd worked with Chris on,
on magnificent seven. Mm. Um, I actually did know someone who knew him. Um, but,
uh, so I, so I did have that connection through someone, someone else. Um,
but I loved shooter,
which is based on the book point of impact by Stephen Hunter with Walberg, uh,
love that movie, cuz I, I love the book so much. Um,
they made it more modern for today's time, but it's a Vietnam. Sniper is, uh,
Boby swagger is who it originally is. But uh, I just thought, he's the guy,
he's the guy to direct this thing and now they're both doing it. Wow.
Which is crazy. That is crazy. Crazy. Yeah. That's so weird, man,
that you had those two people in your head, like that's what makes me think.
I don't, I don't not believe that it's possible to manifest something,
but I think most of the people that talk about that stuff are full of. Yeah.
That's where it's a problem. Like most of the people that talk about that stuff,
they're trying to sell you something that, well, you know,
you can make your life happen and you just need a dream board and write all
those things down. There's a lot of that stuff is horses,
because you gotta do the work. Right. That's it.
But part of me thinks that if you do do the work and you do have that focus and
that intensity,
I feel like there might be some sort of frequency that you can tap in where you
make things more likely to happen or possibly you can make things happen.
But the thing is, you know,
like you only hear those stories from the people that are successful.
Like how many people, like I wrote a book,
I had Chris Pratt in my head and I ran him and I said, Chris, yeah.
And he's like, get the away from me. No.
It's, it's totally crazy. How all that, uh,
how all that stuff kind of comes to comes.
Together. You couldn't have picked it better than guy than CRA.
He is such a good guy. He's such a great guy. He's almost weird. Weirdly. Nice.
Yeah. No.
He's so nice. He gets just different for around here. Maybe. I don't.
Know. Well, it's, he's very different in terms of like Hollywood actors.
Like there's a few like him, like, you know, it's like,
people love to say that actors are full of and they're gross and they're,
self-centered narcissist and yeah, it's true.
A lot of the time <laugh> is it really? But it's not true all the time. Yeah.
And Chris is a great example of a guy who's like, he's a very religious guy.
Very, pro-military very, he's a really positive guy. Very, very,
very friendly guy. He's not your typical actor.
Yeah. No, he's, he's been so great to me also.
A huge movie star. So it's weird. It's like, he's not that, you know,
guy who does Coke and goes to parties and he's a different, different animal.
Yeah. He's they do exist.
Male and female there's there are actresses that are great people. They just,
they just really genuinely enjoy acting. But for the most part,
the people that get into it are people that need a disproportion,
an amount of attention. Yeah. And for the most part,
the people that need a disproportionate amount of attention are
disproportionately annoying <laugh> you.
Know? Yeah.
And usually they like to get rid of the author right away when you auction
something, cuz they're like, I wanna get rid of that guy,
cuz he's gonna be on set and he's gonna be like, that's not my vision.
You're ruining my book or whatever. So they'd like to get rid of you,
but Chris wanted be involved. So I got to help out on the, uh,
on the pilot script. That's that's awesome.
And it is so good. Now is this a Netflix thing? Is that what you're doing? It's.
Uh, it's still classified. I think they're doing some,
some announcement at some point, but it's uh, yeah. Streaming service and oh,
that's right.
Okay. I know what it is. I forgot. Yeah. So.
It's uh, eight to 10 fart series. Maybe something like that. Eight to 10 parts.
So I think they'll know exactly that's.
Per yeah. Cause if they tried to jam that you, I don't think it work, go tried.
Do a movie. Well you don't have to anymore. Yeah. It's great. People like.
Show and now he looks genius, right? Yes. Especially now <laugh> yes.
So it looks like such.
A good move. Another crazy fate thing is because when you were doing that, like,
Ooh, when you were writing that in 2016, the, the streaming thing,
wasn't what it is today. Right? And.
Well, even when we did the deal, it was like, oh movie, it was kinda like that,
that it was early 20, 20 18. Uh,
when we did the deal and it's like, well you a series or movie. So it's both,
it could be both in the, in the contract and now,
and then they decided to do the series, you know, earlier on,
before COVID even was on the radar. But now it looks like, yeah, genius move.